


## When is Basic Authorization used vs. Bearer Authorization?

The Basic and Digest authentication schemes are dedicated to the authentication using a username and a secret (see RFC7616 and RFC7617).

The Bearer authentication scheme is dedicated to the authentication using a token and is described by the RFC6750.


## What does the JSON Web Token package do?


create token/signature .sign() of a SECRET and use algorthims to encrypt them and provide options to them and 
verify tokens and retrive thier pay load headers .verify using the SECRET.

## What considerations should we make when creating and storing a SECRET?
1-store secret in the  .env file and never show them to the  public .<br>
2-use randomly generated and long secrets <br>

#  Terms

* encryption : is the process of hiding the data and change its form.<br>
* token  : is a cryptic string that is generated by the server in response to a login request.<br>
* bearer : It is some type of authentication that used a token to verify a user on each request.<br>
* Secret : it is paired with a token, a secret string stored on the server .<br>
* JSON Web Token : is a standard used to create access tokens for an application. It works this way: the server generates a token that certifies the user identity, and sends it to the client.<br>

# Preparation Materials 

## 5 steps to simple role-based access control (RBAC) 

### What is RBAC?
RBAC is nothing more than the idea of assigning system access to users based on their role within an organization. The system needs of a given workforce are analyzed, with users grouped into roles based on common job responsibilities and system access needs.

### Benefits of RBAC?
With the proper implementation of RBAC, the assignment of access rights becomes systematic and repeatable. Further, it is much easier to audit user rights, and to correct any issues identified.

### RBAC implementation 
1. Inventory your systems <br>
2. Analyze your workforce and create roles<br>
3. Assign people to roles<br>
4. Never make one-off changes<br>
5. Audit<br>
 
[RBAC tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C4NP8Eon3cA)

[5 steps to RBAC](https://www.csoonline.com/article/3060780/5-steps-to-simple-role-based-access-control.html)

[wiki - RBAC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Role-based_access_control)

